User guide for Kubernetes Events in Ray Dashboard (#64734)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-observability/user-guides/k8s-events.md

(kuberay-k8s-events)=

> # Enabling Ray Platform Events on Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Enable Ray platform events on Kubernetes
```

Three rules in [`doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md`](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md): sentence case for every heading, imperative phrasing for task headings, and lowercase for generic nouns even when they name a Ray concept. Vale's `Google.Headings` rule is disabled in this repo, so the style guide is the only thing enforcing sentence case here.

This guide explains how to set up and use the Platform Events feature within the Ray Dashboard on Kubernetes. This feature integrates Kubernetes events related to your Ray clusters, jobs, and services directly into the Ray Dashboard, providing enhanced observability.

## Overview

> The Platform Events feature allows you to see Kubernetes cluster-level lifecycle events for Ray custom resources (RayCluster, RayJob, RayService) alongside your Ray application metrics and logs. This helps you correlate cluster behavior with application behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to enable and use platform events in the Ray Dashboard on Kubernetes. Platform events surface Kubernetes lifecycle events for the KubeRay custom resources `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, and `RayService` in the Ray Dashboard, alongside your Ray application metrics and logs, so you can correlate cluster behavior with application behavior.
```

The opening paragraph and the Overview section say substantially the same thing, so this folds them into one. It also drops "providing enhanced observability" (a vague comparison, per the Keep comparisons precise rule) and rewrites "allows you to see" (the Focus on what the reader does rule, which asks you to avoid "lets," "allows," and "enables"). Both in [`doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md`](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md).

## Prerequisites
* **Ray Version**: v2.56.0 or newer
* **Kubernetes Python Client**: The `kubernetes` Python package must be installed in the Ray Head Pod's Python environment. This is included in the official `rayproject/ray` images. If using custom images, ensure this package is added.

> * **Kubernetes Cluster**: A functional Kubernetes cluster where you can deploy Ray workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

* **Ray version**: Ray 2.56.0 or later.
* **Kubernetes Python client**: Install the `kubernetes` Python package in the Ray head pod's Python environment. The official `rayproject/ray` images include it. Add it to custom images.
* **Kubernetes cluster**: A Kubernetes cluster where you can deploy Ray workloads.
```

Several rules at once:

- Sentence case in the bold definition-list labels.
- Active voice: "The `kubernetes` Python package must be installed" hides the actor, and "ensure this package is added" does the same. The style guide asks you to name the actor and put it in front of the verb.
- "If using custom images" is a dangling modifier with no subject.
- Lowercase "head pod" as a generic noun.
- "v2.56.0 or newer" reads as a Git tag; Google style prefers "later" over "newer" for versions.
- Consistent terminal periods within one list.

## Configure RBAC Permissions

> The Ray Head Pod needs permissions to interact with the Kubernetes API to watch for relevant events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure RBAC permissions

The Ray head pod needs permission to call the Kubernetes API and watch events.
```

Sentence case in the heading, lowercase generic noun in "head pod," and a blank line after the heading to match every other `.md` page in this directory.

Create a file named `ray-rbac.yaml`:
```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: ray-head-watch-role
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["events"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
- apiGroups: ["ray.io"]
  resources: ["rayclusters"]
  verbs: ["get"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: ray-head-watch-role-binding
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: default # IMPORTANT: Change this if your Ray Head Pod uses a different ServiceAccount
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: ray-head-watch-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

Apply this configuration to the namespace where your Ray cluster runs:
```bash
kubectl apply -f ray-rbac.yaml -n <your-ray-namespace>
```

**Key Permissions:**
* `events`: Required to stream Kubernetes events.

> * `rayclusters`: Required for the dashboard to find parent resources like RayJob or RayService and watch their related events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The role grants two permissions:

* `events`: Required to stream Kubernetes events.
* `rayclusters`: Required for the dashboard to find parent resources such as `RayJob` or `RayService` and watch their events.
```

Two rules from [`doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md`](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md):

- Bold is reserved for UI element names, admonition lead-in labels, and bold definition lists. `**Key Permissions:**` is bold standing in for a heading. A list lead-in should be a complete sentence ending in a colon, and the guide asks you to state the count when you name a fixed set.
- "like" is reserved for genuine comparisons; use "such as" for examples.

## Configure Environment Variables
Enable and configure the feature using environment variables on the Ray Head Pod container.

| Environment Variable | Value | Description |
|----------------------|-------|-------------|
| `RAY_DASHBOARD_INGEST_PLATFORM_EVENTS` | `"true"` | Enables the platform event watcher in the Ray Dashboard backend. |

## Manifest Examples

> You can deploy complete working examples directly from the KubeRay repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manifest examples

Deploy complete working examples from the KubeRay repository:
```

Sentence case, imperative rather than "You can deploy," and "directly" is on the style guide's filler list.

> ### RayCluster Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### RayCluster example
```

Sentence case.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-cluster.platform-events.yaml
```

> ### RayJob Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### RayJob example
```

Sentence case.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-job.platform-events.yaml
```

## Verification
After deploying your Ray Cluster/Job with the above configurations:

1. **Port-Forward the Dashboard:**
```bash
# Find your Ray head pod
kubectl get pods -n <your-ray-namespace> | grep head

# Port-forward
kubectl port-forward <HEAD_POD_NAME> -n <your-ray-namespace> 8265:8265
```

2. **Query the API (Optional):**
Test the endpoint to see if events are being collected:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8265/api/v0/platform_events
```

> A successful response will be a JSON object containing recent events:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
## Verify the configuration

After you deploy your RayCluster or RayJob with these configurations, complete the following steps.

### Port-forward the dashboard

```bash
# Find your Ray head pod
kubectl get pods -n <your-ray-namespace> | grep head

# Port-forward
kubectl port-forward <head-pod-name> -n <your-ray-namespace> 8265:8265
```

### Query the API

This step is optional. Test the endpoint to confirm that Ray collects events:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8265/api/v0/platform_events
```

A successful response is a JSON object containing recent events:
````

**This one is a rendering bug, not a preference.** The `1.`/`2.`/`3.` items are followed by fenced code blocks at column zero, which terminates the list at the first fence. MyST renders items 2 and 3 as fresh single-item lists, so the page shows "1.", "1.", "1." rather than 1, 2, 3. Promoting the three steps to `###` headings fixes it and also clears the bold-as-a-heading pattern. Indenting the fences under each item would work too if you'd rather keep the numbered list.

Also folded in:

- `<HEAD_POD_NAME>` becomes `<head-pod-name>`. [`doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md`](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md) explicitly rejects uppercase inside placeholder brackets, because it's ambiguous with real constants and environment variables. `<your-ray-namespace>` is already fine.
- "Ray Cluster/Job" becomes "RayCluster or RayJob". The guide asks you to spell out separators in prose rather than using `/`.
- "the above configurations" becomes "these configurations", avoiding a positional reference.
- "(Optional)" moves out of the parenthetical, per the Sentence structure rule against parentheticals.
- "to see if events are being collected" becomes active.
- "A successful response will be a JSON object" becomes present tense.

        "sessionName": "",
        "nodeId": ""
      },
      {
        "eventId": "NWRhNjhmNmEtYjFhMi00MWZiLWE0YWQtN2IwNjIyNmM1YjAw",
        "sourceType": "CLUSTER_LIFECYCLE",
        "eventType": "PLATFORM_EVENT",
        "timestamp": "2026-06-16T21:49:08Z",
        "severity": "INFO",
        "message": "Created worker Pod default/rayjob-test-f52vq-small-group-worker-j7gtf",
        "platformEvent": {
          "source": {
            "platform": "KUBERNETES",
            "component": "raycluster-controller",
            "metadata": {
              "namespace": "default",
              "rayClusterName": "rayjob-test-f52vq"
            }
          },
          "objectKind": "RayCluster",
          "objectName": "rayjob-test-f52vq",
          "message": "Created worker Pod default/rayjob-test-f52vq-small-group-worker-j7gtf",
          "reason": "CreatedWorkerPod",
          "customFields": {}
        },
        "sessionName": "",
        "nodeId": ""
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

3. **Check the Ray Dashboard UI:**
Open `http://localhost:8265` in your browser. Look for the "Platform Events" section in the horizontal navigation bar at the top. Events should be displayed there.

> ![Ray Dashboard Platform Events UI](../images/platform-events-ui.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check the Ray Dashboard

Open `http://localhost:8265` in your browser. Look for the **Platform Events** tab in the navigation bar at the top. The dashboard displays the events there.

![Ray Dashboard with the Platform Events tab selected, showing a table of Kubernetes lifecycle events with columns for time, severity, source, object, reason, and message.](../images/platform-events-ui.png)
```

Rules applied:

- UI element names take bold, not quotation marks. See the Bold and italics section of [`doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md`](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md).
- "Events should be displayed there" is passive with a hedge; the dashboard is the actor.
- Alt text should describe what the image shows rather than title it. `Ray Dashboard Platform Events UI` names the screenshot; it doesn't tell a screen-reader user what's in it.

**On the image file itself.** `platform-events-ui.png` is 3420x1694 at 1.1 MB, which makes it the largest file in `ray-observability/images/` by a wide margin. The Sphinx content column is roughly 1000 px, so a 2x asset at about 2000 px wide is all the page can use. For comparison, `dashboard-overview.png` is a comparably busy full-dashboard shot at 3152x1922 and 414 KB, and the rest of that directory sits well under 400 KB. Downscaling to about 2000 px wide should land in the same range.

Cropping the browser chrome would help on two counts beyond size: it removes the Chrome profile prompt in the top right, and it removes the `localhost:3000` address bar, which contradicts the `localhost:8265` the step above tells readers to open.

Author: Cropped the image and reduced its size to 511 KB now.

## Troubleshooting & Important Notes

* **Requires KubeRay (Ray 2.56)**: In Ray 2.56, this feature only tracks events related to KubeRay Custom Resources (`RayCluster`, `RayJob`, `RayService`). It is not supported for manual Ray deployments without the KubeRay Operator.
* **Missing RBAC Permissions**: If the ServiceAccount lacks `get` permissions on `rayclusters` within the `ray.io` API group, the system cannot link events to parent RayJob or RayService resources. This will result in only RayCluster-direct events being shown.
* **Event Export Routing (Optional)**: By default, platform events are sent to Ray's observability system using the event type `PLATFORM_EVENT`.
  * If you use a custom event export address via `RAY_DASHBOARD_AGGREGATOR_AGENT_EVENTS_EXPORT_ADDR`, you can forward these platform events to external logging/monitoring systems (see {ref}`Ray Event Export <ray-event-export>`).

>   * If you filter event types using `RAY_ENABLE_PYTHON_RAY_EVENT_TYPES`, make sure to include `"PLATFORM_EVENT"` in the list (e.g., `RAY_ENABLE_PYTHON_RAY_EVENT_TYPES="PLATFORM_EVENT,SYSTEM_EVENT"`). Otherwise, platform events will not be exported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting

:::{note}
As of Ray 2.56, this feature tracks only events for the KubeRay custom resources `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, and `RayService`. It doesn't support Ray deployments that run without the KubeRay operator.
:::

:::{caution}
If the ServiceAccount lacks `get` permission on `rayclusters` in the `ray.io` API group, Ray can't link events to parent `RayJob` or `RayService` resources. The dashboard then shows only the events that target the RayCluster itself.
:::

### Route platform events to an external system

By default, Ray sends platform events to its observability system with the event type `PLATFORM_EVENT`.

If you set a custom event export address with `RAY_DASHBOARD_AGGREGATOR_AGENT_EVENTS_EXPORT_ADDR`, you can forward platform events to external logging and monitoring systems. See {ref}`Ray Event Export <ray-event-export>`.

If you filter event types with `RAY_ENABLE_PYTHON_RAY_EVENT_TYPES`, include `"PLATFORM_EVENT"` in the list, for example `RAY_ENABLE_PYTHON_RAY_EVENT_TYPES="PLATFORM_EVENT,SYSTEM_EVENT"`. Otherwise Ray doesn't export platform events.
```

The biggest change here is converting the caveats to admonitions. [`doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md`](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/doc/source/ray-contribute/writing-style.md) asks you to turn a standalone caveat or limitation into the matching admonition so it stands out instead of hiding in a bullet, and to reserve bold for UI elements, admonition labels, and definition lists rather than pseudo-headings. The version scope is supporting information (`note`); the RBAC failure mode is something a reader needs to get right (`caution`); and the event-export routing is a task, so it reads better as its own subsection than as nested bullets.

Smaller rules folded in:

- `&` becomes "and" per the Use words for symbols in prose rule. I also dropped "Important Notes" from the heading, since with the admonitions the section is just troubleshooting.
- Contractions. The page currently has none, and the guide mandates them: "It is not supported" becomes "It doesn't support," "will not be exported" becomes "doesn't export."
- Future tense becomes present: "This will result in only RayCluster-direct events being shown."
- `e.g.,` becomes "for example". Vale's `Google.Latin` rule flags Latin abbreviations.
- Parentheticals unwrapped, including moving the `{ref}` cross-reference into its own sentence at the end.
- "make sure to include" becomes "include".
- "using" becomes "with" in the instrumental sense.

I kept your `{ref}` link text as-is since @sampan-s-nayak already confirmed the syntax.

Reviewer: Noting: first Ray version that this goes live with is Ray 2.57.0, so not sure if we need to add notes for Ray 2.56.0 here?

Author: Code was already merged for 2.56.0 though

(kuberay-k8s-events)=

> # User Guide: Enabling Ray Platform Events on Kubernetes

Reviewer 2: nit: remove the "User Guide: "

Author: Done

```bash
kubectl apply -f ray-rbac.yaml -n <your-ray-namespace>
```

**Key Permissions:**
* `events`: Required to stream Kubernetes events.
* `rayclusters`: Required for the dashboard to find parent resources like RayJob or RayService and watch their related events.

## Configure Environment Variables
Enable and configure the feature using environment variables on the Ray Head Pod container.

### Mandatory

| Environment Variable | Value | Description |
|----------------------|-------|-------------|
| `RAY_DASHBOARD_INGEST_PLATFORM_EVENTS` | `"true"` | Enables the platform event watcher in the Ray Dashboard backend. |

### For Non-KubeRay Deployments
If you are NOT using the KubeRay Operator to manage your Ray cluster, you must also set the following environment variables on the Ray Head Pod. KubeRay v1.6+ injects these automatically.
```yaml
env: 
  - name: RAY_DASHBOARD_INGEST_PLATFORM_EVENTS
    value: "true" 
  - name: RAY_CLUSTER_NAME 
    value: "your-ray-cluster-name" # Must match the target RayCluster name 
  - name: RAY_CLUSTER_NAMESPACE 
    value: "your-namespace" # Must match the target namespace
```

> ## Manifest Examples

Reviewer 2: We usually put manifest examples in kuberay repo here https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/tree/master/ray-operator/config/samples

and you can just `kubectl apply -f` using the raw github content link directly in the user guide

Author: So I do have this kuberay PR to add these sample manifests https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/5001, updated this PR to just point to those, but we'd need to merge https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/5001 first then..

Author: Resolving since https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/5001 is merged

          "objectName": "rayjob-test-f52vq",
          "message": "Created head Pod default/rayjob-test-f52vq-head-vmlwz",
          "reason": "CreatedHeadPod",
          "customFields": {}
        },
        "sessionName": "",
        "nodeId": ""
      },
      {
        "eventId": "NWRhNjhmNmEtYjFhMi00MWZiLWE0YWQtN2IwNjIyNmM1YjAw",
        "sourceType": "CLUSTER_LIFECYCLE",
        "eventType": "PLATFORM_EVENT",
        "timestamp": "2026-06-16T21:49:08Z",
        "severity": "INFO",
        "message": "Created worker Pod default/rayjob-test-f52vq-small-group-worker-j7gtf",
        "platformEvent": {
          "source": {
            "platform": "KUBERNETES",
            "component": "raycluster-controller",
            "metadata": {
              "namespace": "default",
              "rayClusterName": "rayjob-test-f52vq"
            }
          },
          "objectKind": "RayCluster",
          "objectName": "rayjob-test-f52vq",
          "message": "Created worker Pod default/rayjob-test-f52vq-small-group-worker-j7gtf",
          "reason": "CreatedWorkerPod",
          "customFields": {}
        },
        "sessionName": "",
        "nodeId": ""
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> 3. **Check the Ray Dashboard UI:**

Reviewer 3: we could maybe add a screenshot of the dashboard here?

> 3. **Check the Ray Dashboard UI:**

Reviewer 2: Can we include screenshot?

Author: Done

Open `http://localhost:8265` in your browser. Look for the "Platform Events" section in the horizontal navigation bar at the top. Events should be displayed there.

## Troubleshooting & Important Notes

> * **Non-KubeRay Deployments**: This feature primarily tracks events related to KubeRay Custom Resources. If you deploy Ray pods manually without KubeRay, you will only see events if something else in your system emits Kubernetes events targeting the RayCluster object.

Reviewer 3: RayCluster itself is a custom resource managed by kuberay right? should we just warn people to only use this feature with kuberay?

Author: Right, but I guess I was trying to have this doc/user-guide also include instructions for users interested in just K8s pod events for their RayCluster custom resources (addressed by https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63937), which would work even for non-kuberay clusters if these env vars are set:

```yaml
env: 
  - name: RAY_CLUSTER_NAME 
    value: "your-ray-cluster-name" # Must match the target RayCluster name 
  - name: RAY_CLUSTER_NAMESPACE 
    value: "your-namespace" # Must match the target namespace
``` 
But since this PR was not merged for 2.56, we could just drop the confusing section here, so updated it accordingly. Maybe once 2.57 is out, we update this user-guide to explicitly state those env vars for users to specify, for their non-kuberay deployments of the Ray clusters.

cc @andrewsykim for their thoughts on this.

Reviewer 2: I think in most of the docs we assume KubeRay is used, so we should just follow that pattern.

* **Missing RBAC Permissions**: If the ServiceAccount lacks `get` permissions on `rayclusters` within the `ray.io` API group, the system cannot link events to parent RayJob or RayService resources. This will result in only RayCluster-direct events being shown.
* **Event Export Routing (Optional)**: By default, platform events are sent to Ray's observability system using the event type `PLATFORM_EVENT`.

>   * If you use a custom event export address via `RAY_DASHBOARD_AGGREGATOR_AGENT_EVENTS_EXPORT_ADDR`, you can forward these platform events to external logging/monitoring systems.

Reviewer 3: lets link to the custom event export related docs here? https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-observability/user-guides/ray-event-export.html (note: instead of embedding the url lets link the relevant doc page using the spinx cross reference syntax)

Author: Sg, added. Could you help confirm if the syntax is correct? Thanks!

Reviewer 3: looks right to me
